PFI Quickstart (#1477)
TBD54566975/developer.tbd.website: site/docs/tbdex/pfi-quickstart.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: 'Quickstart: PFI'
hide_title: true
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

import { QuickstartExecutionProvider } from '@site/src/components/QuickstartExecutionContext';
import Version from '@site/src/components/Version';
import PackageJson from '@site/src/components/PackageJson';
import CodeSnippet from '@site/src/components/CodeSnippet';
import PfiQuickstartCodeRunner from '@site/src/components/PfiQuickstartCodeRunner';

<QuickstartExecutionProvider>

# tbDEX PFI in 5️⃣ Minutes

## Overview

> A Participating Financial Institution (PFI) in the tbDEX ecosystem provides liquidity offerings to customers via Wallets. Customers can place orders and execute transactions if they meet the necessary requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [Participating Financial Institution (PFI)](/docs/tbdex/pfi/overview) in the tbDEX ecosystem provides liquidity offerings to customers via Wallets. Customers can place orders and execute transactions if they meet the necessary requirements.
```
add link to more about PFIs

Reviewer: Okay on second thought..you might even be able to make these sentences even more short but clear..and more connected

```suggestion
A [Participating Financial Institution (PFI)](/docs/tbdex/pfi/overview) in the tbDEX ecosystem provides liquidity offerings to customers via [Wallets](/docs/tbdex/wallet/overview), allowing eligible customers to place orders and execute transactions.
```

**In this quickstart, you'll:**

- Set up a basic PFI with offerings
- Open endpoints for tbDEX-enabled Wallets
- Process Requests for Quote and respond with Quotes

> - Handle Orders, provide `OrderStatus` updates, and close out Orders

Reviewer: not a requirement but the other quickstarts have checkmarks instead of bullet points..maybe we can add that just for consistency?

Reviewer 2: I'll likely change those. Not sure I like the checkmarks since they are not done yet.

Reviewer: aww i liked them 🤣 but okay!

Reviewer 3: dont be boring Ace lol! maybe another emoji?

Let's get started!

## Building a Simple PFI

### Create a DID

PFIs on tbDEX are identified using [Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)](/docs/web5/decentralized-identifiers/what-are-dids). Let's create a DID for your PFI and specify a service endpoint for wallet applications to interact with your PFI:

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewCreateDid" />
<PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeDidCreate" stepIndex={0} customPlaceholder={"See PFI DID"} />

### Structure Your PFI App

> 

Reviewer: most of your headings are gerunds (words ending with -ing) do you want to change these two headings to Creating a DID and Structuring your PFI App for consistency?

> PFIs are essentially `node express` servers with `tbDEX` SDK enhancements. You'll need a server and a database (e.g a `postgres` database with `offerings` and `exchanges` tables).
> 
> There are two primary components to a PFI: the `OfferingsApi` and the `ExchangesApi`. The `OfferingsApi` allows Wallets to query your PFI for available offerings, while the `ExchangesApi` handles RFQs, Orders, and exchange closures.

Reviewer: okay I think it's cuz im neurodivergent, but there's too many words enclosed by backticks/that are greyed code snippets for me, so my eyes keep jumping around..What if you did something like this for readability? Feel free to change to your liking

```suggestion
PFIs are [Express](https://expressjs.com/) servers enhanced with the [tbDEX SDK](/docs/tbdex/). You'll need a:

Server
Database (e.g., PostgreSQL) with offerings and exchanges tables
There are two primary components to a PFI:

[OfferingsApi](/docs/tbdex/pfi/anatomy-of-a-pfi/#offerings-api-provider): Allows Wallets to query available offerings
[ExchangesApi](/docs/tbdex/pfi/anatomy-of-a-pfi/#exchange-api-provider): Handles RFQs, Orders, and exchange closures
```

#### Extend the `OfferingsApi` and `ExchangesApi` Interfaces
With your own custom database setup, you can extend the `OfferingsApi` and `ExchangesApi` interfaces with instructions to manage the database containing your offerings and exchanges.

Learn more about how to do this in detail in this [guide](/docs/tbdex/pfi/anatomy-of-a-pfi).

{/* First, we implement the `ExchangesApiProvider` class by focusing on the `write` function to handle exchange data:

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewWriteJs" title="exchangesApiProvider.ts" />

Next, we implement the `OfferingsApiProvider` class which also stores and fetches the PFI's list of offerings when requested by a Wallet:

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewReadOfferingsJs" title="offeringsApiProvider.ts" /> */}

#### Create your server instance of `TbdexHttpServer`
Create your main server entry point in `main.ts`, with an instance of `TbdexHttpServer` passing the `exchangesApi`, `offeringsApi` and the `pfiDid`.

> <CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewConfigJs" title="main.ts" />

Reviewer: I wish this could be runnable code, but I guess I get why it's not

{/* Next we need to configure the PFI to know how to react when it receives specific types of messages from the customer. To be able to create quotes, handle orders and close out the exchange using the `write` method.

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewServerRoutesJs" title="main.ts" /> */}

## Building Out Offerings

> Without Offerings, your PFI doesn't have anything to present to customers. [Create an Offering](/docs/tbdex/pfi/creating-offerings) to swap `USD` for `KES` and insert it into your `offerings` table.
> 
> Here's an example:

Reviewer: what if you said something like
```suggestion
Without Offerings, your PFI doesn't have anything to present to customers. Let's [create an Offering](/docs/tbdex/pfi/creating-offerings) for USD to KES and and insert it into your `offerings` table:
```

> <CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiCreateQuickstartOfferingJs" title="offeringsApiProvider.ts" />

Reviewer: I wish this could be runnable code, but I guess I get why it's not

{/* <PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeAddOffering" stepIndex={1} customPlaceholder={"Add the Offering to the PFI"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={3} /> */}

### Fetching Offerings for Wallets

> With your `offeringsApi` all setup to return offerings when requested, this is what wallet providers would receive when they call `TbdexHttpClient.getOfferings()` :

Reviewer: sometimes you write `offeringsApi` and sometimes you write `OfferingsApi`.

Which one should you write for consistency?

Reviewer 2: The `OfferingsApi` is the interface to extend, the `offeringsApi` is the argument to pass to the server instance. Will try to reduce the occurrence of this so it's less confusing to the reader.

> <PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeGetOfferings" stepIndex={1} customPlaceholder={"Fetch offerings from the PFI Endpoint"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={3} />

Reviewer: is this return value correct? -- undefined?
<img width="915" alt="Screenshot 2024-09-11 at 8 05 18 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c510a1c1-e05a-45e5-a2e6-fb3cdc72ad30">

## Processing tbDEX Messages

### Processing RFQs and Returning Quotes

> When a customer selects an offering, they make a `Request for Quote` along with their credentials that match the `requiredClaims` of the offering. Using this submitted data, your PFI generates a  `Quote`:

Reviewer: Instead of Request for Quote being in a the code backticks..maybe we can link to the guide about RFQs 
docs/tbdex/wallet/send-rfq

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: 'Quickstart: PFI'
hide_title: true
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

import { QuickstartExecutionProvider } from '@site/src/components/QuickstartExecutionContext';
import Version from '@site/src/components/Version';
import PackageJson from '@site/src/components/PackageJson';
import CodeSnippet from '@site/src/components/CodeSnippet';
import PfiQuickstartCodeRunner from '@site/src/components/PfiQuickstartCodeRunner';

<QuickstartExecutionProvider>

# tbDEX PFI in 5️⃣ Minutes

## Overview

A [Participating Financial Institution (PFI)](/docs/tbdex/pfi/overview) in the tbDEX ecosystem provides liquidity offerings to customers via Wallets. Customers can place orders and execute transactions if they meet the necessary requirements.

**In this quickstart, you'll:**

- Set up a basic PFI with offerings
- Open endpoints for tbDEX-enabled Wallets
- Process Requests for Quote and respond with Quotes

> - Handle Orders, provide `OrderStatus` updates, and close out Orders

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Handle Orders, provide OrderStatus updates, and close out Orders
```

none of the other message types that are listed are encoded

Let's get started!

## Building a Simple PFI

### Create a DID

PFIs on tbDEX are identified using [Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)](/docs/web5/decentralized-identifiers/what-are-dids). Let's create a DID for your PFI and specify a service endpoint for wallet applications to interact with your PFI:

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewCreateDid" />
<PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeDidCreate" stepIndex={0} customPlaceholder={"See PFI DID"} />

> ### Structure Your PFI App

Reviewer 3: Ok this section and the next are TMI (tooooo much info). We want people to get right into playing around. I recommend replacing lines 40 - 88 with this:

```
### Structure Your PFI App
To operate as a PFI on the tbDEX network, you'll need a server that handles incoming requests, a database that holds Offerings and Exchanges, and implementations of the OfferingsApi and ExchangesApi. We'll spare you the details in this Quickstart, however, for more info, check out the guide on [Structuring a PFI App](/docs/tbdex/pfi/anatomy-of-a-pfi).

### Fetching Offerings for Wallets
With your database populated with Offerings and the OfferingsApi set up, Wallet applications can now call `TbdexHttpClient.getOfferings()` to obtain a list of the currency conversions you offer and the requirements to transact. 

[runnable code thingy]
```

Reviewer: that was my fault. i tried to make the structure pfi part shorter/readable..but it still wasnt. I like your suggestion

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewServerRoutesJs" title="main.ts" /> */}

## Building Out Offerings

Without Offerings, your PFI doesn't have anything to present to customers. [Create an Offering](/docs/tbdex/pfi/creating-offerings) to swap `USD` for `KES` and insert it into your `offerings` table.

Here's an example:

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiCreateQuickstartOfferingJs" title="offeringsApiProvider.ts" />

{/* <PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeAddOffering" stepIndex={1} customPlaceholder={"Add the Offering to the PFI"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={3} /> */}

### Fetching Offerings for Wallets

With your `offeringsApi` all setup to return offerings when requested, this is what wallet providers would receive when they call `TbdexHttpClient.getOfferings()` :

<PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeGetOfferings" stepIndex={1} customPlaceholder={"Fetch offerings from the PFI Endpoint"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={3} />

## Processing tbDEX Messages

> 

Reviewer 3: Add a sentence here explaining what's a "tbDEX message"

### Processing RFQs and Returning Quotes

> When a customer selects an offering, they make a `Request for Quote` along with their credentials that match the `requiredClaims` of the offering. Using this submitted data, your PFI generates a  `Quote`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a customer selects an offering, they make a `RFQ` (Request for Quote) that includes the methods of payment they'd prefer and the credentials that match the `requiredClaims` of the Offering. Using this submitted data, your PFI generates a  `Quote`:
```

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiCreateQuoteJs" title="exchangeApiProvider.ts" />

> <PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeGetQuote" stepIndex={2} customPlaceholder={"See the Quote"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={1} />

Reviewer 3: can we increase the collapseLevel throughout to either 2 or 3? want to see more of the output so it makes more sense.

### Receiving Orders and Returning OrderStatus

> The customer has accepted the quote and places an order. Let's process accepted Quotes, manage Orders, and send `OrderStatus` updates:

Reviewer 3: be careful with capitalization. in this first sentence "quote" and "order" are lowercase. In the second sentence they are capitalized. and OrderStatus is the only one of the messages enclosed in backticks. Review the guide and make the tbDEX message types consistent throughout

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOrderStatusJs" title="exchangeApiProvider.ts" />
<PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeGetOrderStatus" stepIndex={3} customPlaceholder={"See the OrderStatus"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={1} />

### Closing Out Orders

> Once the order is fulfilled, or cancelled by the PFI for whatever reason, you close orders with a `Close` message along with the `reason`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the order is completed (whether that means fulfilled or cancelled) fulfilled, you close the exchange with a `Close` message which can optionally include a `reason` and a `success` indicator:
```

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiCloseOrderJs" title="exchangeApiProvider.ts" />
<PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeGetClose" stepIndex={4} customPlaceholder={"See the Close Message"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={1} />

## Next Steps with tbDEX

> Congratulations on building your first PFI! To explore further, check out the full [PFI guide](/docs/tbdex/pfi/overview) or learn about [building a Wallet](/docs/tbdex/wallet/overview) and [becoming a Credential Issuer](/docs/tbdex/issuer/overview).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Congratulations on building your first PFI! To explore further, check out the full [PFI guide](/docs/tbdex/pfi/overview).
```

---
sidebar_position: 2

> title: PFI Quickstart

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: 'Quickstart: PFI'
```

hide_title: true
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

import { QuickstartExecutionProvider } from '@site/src/components/QuickstartExecutionContext';
import Version from '@site/src/components/Version';
import PackageJson from '@site/src/components/PackageJson';
import CodeSnippet from '@site/src/components/CodeSnippet';
import PfiQuickstartCodeRunner from '@site/src/components/PfiQuickstartCodeRunner';

<QuickstartExecutionProvider>
# tbDEX PFI in 5️⃣ minutes

## Overview

> Let’s build a tbDEX-enabled PFI in under 5 minutes, right here in the browser. You will learn how to:

Reviewer 3: This is a quickstart, meaning it's likely the very first stop for people. So, you need to provide some context here. What does PFI stand for? what does a PFI do on tbDEX?

Doesn't have to be long, but one or two lines to set the stage would be very helpful

Author: Added

✅  Stand up a basic PFI

✅  Open endpoints for tbDEX-enabled Wallets to interact with your PFI

✅  Broadcast Offerings

✅  Process Requests for Quote and respond with Quotes

✅  Accept Orders, provide OrderStatus Updates, and Close out Orders

Let’s go!

## PFI App Basics

> In this exercise, your PFI app is responsible for creating an `Offering` that swaps `USD` for `KES` and facilitating that transaction for your customer Alice.

Reviewer 3: This line feels out of place here since you go into creating a DID. Maybe it should be moved down to where you make the offering

Author: Moved

> ### Declare your PFI with a DID

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Create a DID
```

> In order for your app to be recognized as a PFI by other apps, you’ll need to create a DID that declares a `pfi` service and an associated `serviceEndpoint` that is the hostname you want Wallets to be able to reach you at:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On tbDEX, PFIs are identified with [Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)](/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-identifiers). Let's create a DID for your PFI and specify a service endpoint where Wallet apps can reach you to transact:
```

                    title: 'Bank account number',
                    description: 'Bank account of the recipient\'s bank account',
                    type: 'string',
                  },
                  reason: {
                    title: 'Reason for sending',
                    description:
                      'To abide by the travel rules and financial reporting requirements, the reason for sending money',
                    type: 'string',
                  },
                },
              },
              estimatedSettlementTime: 10
            },
          ],
        },

        requiredClaims: {
          id: '7ce4004c-3c38-4853-968b-e411bafcd945',
          input_descriptors: [
            {
              id: 'bbdb9b7c-5754-4f46-b63b-590bada959e0',
              constraints: {
                fields: [
                  {
                    path: ['$.type[*]'],
                    filter: {
                      type: 'string',
                      pattern: '^SanctionCredential$',
                    },
                  },
                  {
                    path: ['$.issuer'],
                    filter: {
                      type: 'string',

>                       const: issuerDid.trim() // Use the read issuer DID here

Reviewer 3: dont think you want to show this here. especially the comment

Author: Removed

Author: Would you want to put a code example of creating an offering? or skip out on that alltogether?

Reviewer 3: i think we can skip creating it from scratch for the quickstart and just show one

                    }
                  }
                ],
              },
            },
          ],
        },
      },
    })

 ```

You can then insert this document into your `offerings` table via a `dataProvider.insert()` call.

<PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeAddOffering" stepIndex={2} customPlaceholder={"Add the Offering to the database"}/>

### Fetch Offerings for Wallets

Now that you have an actual `Offering` available in your database, you’ll need to make it so that Wallets querying your PFI can obtain them. The `tbDEX` SDK will automatically take care of setting up and maintaining those routes so long as you implement the `OfferingsApi` interface:

<CodeSnippet snippetName="pfiOverviewReadOfferingsJs" title="offeringsApiProvider.ts"/>

> <PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeGetOfferings" stepIndex={3} customPlaceholder={"Ping the /offerings API Endpoint"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={1}/>

Reviewer: Hmm change the collapseLevel to 2 or 3 so I can see a bit more of the object by default 
<img width="968" alt="Screenshot 2024-07-20 at 11 28 48 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d7db1f02-fd68-4dae-9f10-0cc702b54677">

Author: Good call, updating

## Support Exchanges APIs

With a DID and OfferingsApi, our PFI is now ready to receive Requests for Quote (RFQs), which initiate exchanges that can lead to orders. Although we previously implemented the `write` function of `ExchangesApiProvider`, we’ll now finish out the implementation with the [required methods inherited from `ExchangesApi`](https://tbd54566975.github.io/tbdex-js/interfaces/_tbdex_http_server.ExchangesApi.html).

By implementing these methods, you make it so that `HTTP` requests to your PFI such as queries to the `/exchanges/{exchangeId}` route that returns details of a particular exchange for authenticated parties, automatically now work. To do this, we’ll go back to our `main.ts` file and add logic to process each message we receive from a Wallet, as well as how we’ll respond.

> <PfiQuickstartCodeRunner executeCodeName="executeGetExchanges" stepIndex={4} customPlaceholder={"Fetch a sample Exchange"} viewJsonObj={true} collapseLevel={1}/>

Reviewer: Hmm change the collapseLevel to 2 or 3 so I can see a bit more of the object by default 
<img width="968" alt="Screenshot 2024-07-20 at 11 28 48 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d7db1f02-fd68-4dae-9f10-0cc702b54677">

Author: Updating

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: 'Quickstart: PFI'
hide_title: true
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

import { QuickstartExecutionProvider } from '@site/src/components/QuickstartExecutionContext';
import Version from '@site/src/components/Version';
import PackageJson from '@site/src/components/PackageJson';
import CodeSnippet from '@site/src/components/CodeSnippet';
import PfiQuickstartCodeRunner from '@site/src/components/PfiQuickstartCodeRunner';

<QuickstartExecutionProvider>

# tbDEX PFI in 5️⃣ Minutes

## Overview

A [Participating Financial Institution (PFI)](/docs/tbdex/pfi/overview) in the tbDEX ecosystem provides liquidity offerings to customers via [Wallets](/docs/tbdex/wallet/overview), allowing eligible customers to place orders and execute transactions.

**In this quickstart, you'll:**

> ✅  Set up a basic PFI with offerings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
✅  Set up a basic PFI with `Offerings`
```

✅  Open endpoints for tbDEX-enabled Wallets

> ✅  Process Requests for `Quote` and respond with Quotes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
✅  Provide a `Quote` when requested
```

> ✅  Handle Orders, provide `OrderStatus` updates, and close out Orders

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
✅  Process `Orders`
```
